README.md, before:

<p align="center">
<img alt='Structure icon' src='./client/assets/icon.svg' height='100px' />
</p>

# Structure
Structure is a knowledge management tool.   
It provides a fast approach to storing and retrieving thousands of informations. 
Currently, it handles links (URLs) and text-only notes. 
It currently replaces bookmarking, note-taking and knowledge-base apps. 
In the future it will also be able to handle (small) files, snapshoting of stored websites, 
sharing of individual notes or entire (sub)structures, versioning and much more.

![Screenshot of Structure](./resources/screenshot.png)

The core organization mechanism are tags, there are no folders. 
This allows you to cope with the vast and diverse data points you need to manage in a connected information society.

Above all it acts as a single entry point: 
*Did I bookmark this in Firefox or Chrome?*
*Did I send the link via mail or chat?*
*Is the note in my note-taking app or in a Markdown file in the project folder?*
*Which folder should it go into?*
*Did I star that tweet or screenshot it?*
*Is that CLI argument still findable in my history or can I find the StackOverflow answer again?*  
Structure's answer is: it's always in Structure and you can quickly search for it, 
no matter if you saved a good article five years ago or documented a work process last week.

Common scenarios Structure is well suited for:
- Storing links
    - to read/listen/watch later (like Pocket), independently of platforms (unlike Twitter stars)
    - you need to come back to regularly (e.g. the direct link to some hard to find sub-page of your bank, like bookmarks)
    - to articles you want to remember, possibly with important excerpts (like Zotero)
- Capturing a quick thought or recommendation (like any note taking app)
- Documenting steps of setting up a project (configuration options, commands executed, software/packages installed)
- Being available on all your devices, light-mode and dark-mode, focused on UX
- Associating one note with multiple tags (topics, projects, work areas...)
- You don't want your data to be analyzed/sold/... (also see *Self-hosting*)

Common scenarios Structure is not (yet) well suited for:
- Planned
    - Archiving and full-text search of stored websites (like archive.org)
    - WYSIWYG Markdown editing (like Typora)
    - Publishing of individual notes (like Medium)
    - Publishing of collections
    - Sharing / collaboration
- Considered
    - Adding custom fields to notes (like Notion)
- Not currently planned
    - Generating citations (like Zotero)
    - Being file-system based (like your file-system)

## Installing
The fastest way to get started is the [web version](https://app.structure.love). 
You can install it as a PWA from your mobile browser too, there are no dedicated mobile apps yet.

For desktop, it is recommended to use the dedicated electron app, 
which you can download from the [latest GitHub release page](https://github.com/neopostmodern/structure/releases/latest) under *Assets*.

## Self-hosting
You can (and depending on your requirements, such as privacy concerns, should) host structure yourself. 
There is no documentation yet but the following files should get you started:
```
config/config-example.json
server/scripts/deploy/deploy.sh
.github/workflows/staging.yml
```

It depends on node.js (server version specified in `server/package.json`&rarr;`volta`) and mongoDB 4.2+.

A docker version is planned.

## Development
The project is based on this monorepo. For software requirements and setup see *Self-hosting*.
To run execute (in two terminals, from the root folder)
```
npm run client:web:start # or client:electron:start for the desktop app
```
and
```
npm run server:start
```

Comprehensive PRs are very welcome, as are bug reports, feature requests and other suggestions.

### Release
To release a new version, run
```
npm run util:create-release
```

Commit message:

fix: repair import script
- document usage

README.md, after:

<p align="center">
<img alt='Structure icon' src='./client/assets/icon.svg' height='100px' />
</p>

# Structure
Structure is a knowledge management tool.   
It provides a fast approach to storing and retrieving thousands of informations. 
Currently, it handles links (URLs) and text-only notes. 
It currently replaces bookmarking, note-taking and knowledge-base apps. 
In the future it will also be able to handle (small) files, snapshoting of stored websites, 
sharing of individual notes or entire (sub)structures, versioning and much more.

![Screenshot of Structure](./resources/screenshot.png)

The core organization mechanism are tags, there are no folders. 
This allows you to cope with the vast and diverse data points you need to manage in a connected information society.

Above all it acts as a single entry point: 
*Did I bookmark this in Firefox or Chrome?*
*Did I send the link via mail or chat?*
*Is the note in my note-taking app or in a Markdown file in the project folder?*
*Which folder should it go into?*
*Did I star that tweet or screenshot it?*
*Is that CLI argument still findable in my history or can I find the StackOverflow answer again?*  
Structure's answer is: it's always in Structure and you can quickly search for it, 
no matter if you saved a good article five years ago or documented a work process last week.

Common scenarios Structure is well suited for:
- Storing links
    - to read/listen/watch later (like Pocket), independently of platforms (unlike Twitter stars)
    - you need to come back to regularly (e.g. the direct link to some hard to find sub-page of your bank, like bookmarks)
    - to articles you want to remember, possibly with important excerpts (like Zotero)
- Capturing a quick thought or recommendation (like any note taking app)
- Documenting steps of setting up a project (configuration options, commands executed, software/packages installed)
- Being available on all your devices, light-mode and dark-mode, focused on UX
- Associating one note with multiple tags (topics, projects, work areas...)
- You don't want your data to be analyzed/sold/... (also see *Self-hosting*)

Common scenarios Structure is not (yet) well suited for:
- Planned
    - Archiving and full-text search of stored websites (like archive.org)
    - WYSIWYG Markdown editing (like Typora)
    - Publishing of individual notes (like Medium)
    - Publishing of collections
    - Sharing / collaboration
- Considered
    - Adding custom fields to notes (like Notion)
- Not currently planned
    - Generating citations (like Zotero)
    - Being file-system based (like your file-system)

## Installing
The fastest way to get started is the [web version](https://app.structure.love). 
You can install it as a PWA from your mobile browser too, there are no dedicated mobile apps yet.

For desktop, it is recommended to use the dedicated electron app, 
which you can download from the [latest GitHub release page](https://github.com/neopostmodern/structure/releases/latest) under *Assets*.

## Self-hosting
You can (and depending on your requirements, such as privacy concerns, should) host structure yourself. 
There is no documentation yet but the following files should get you started:
```
config/config-example.json
server/scripts/deploy/deploy.sh
.github/workflows/staging.yml
```

It depends on node.js (server version specified in `server/package.json`&rarr;`volta`) and mongoDB 4.2+.

A docker version is planned.

## Development
The project is based on this monorepo. For software requirements and setup see *Self-hosting*.
To run execute (in two terminals, from the root folder)
```
npm run client:web:start # or client:electron:start for the desktop app
```
and
```
npm run server:start
```

### Importing data from another server

You can export your / one user's data from a server via the GUI. 
To bypass the (currently extremely slow) GUI importer, run:
```shell
cd server
node --loader ts-node/esm/transpile-only --experimental-specifier-resolution=node scripts/util/import-user-data.ts PATH_TO_YOUR_EXPORT_FILE.json
```

Comprehensive PRs are very welcome, as are bug reports, feature requests and other suggestions.

### Release
To release a new version, run
```
npm run util:create-release
```
